README.md, before:

# Neuron Bot

_This project is a part of series of projects, **Neural** for WCHL 2025, meant to make the ICP DAO capabilities accessible to organizations outside ICP. The goal is to establish ICP as the ultimate DAO platform for any needs._

Voting on SNS proposals, Stake-aware Access Controls, Enhanced Community Collaboration, all through Discord now!

This project enables seamless, secure, and privacy-conscious voting on Internet Computer’s SNS (Service Nervous System) proposals directly within Discord. It leverages Internet Identity, VetKeys and TEEs to make the entire user-flow completely secure. Designed with extensibility in mind, the system also lays the foundation for advanced community features such as stake-aware access control and enhanced governance workflows — turning Discord into a robust platform for decentralized decision-making and engagement.

## How does it work?

- Login through Internet Identity.
- Add the ephemeral principal as a Hot Key for your neurons.
- And you're done!

## Architecture

<img width="1758" height="1180" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/386f2a72-8513-4463-8e29-f36ff322853a" />


The project has 3 components:
- **Registry Canister:** This canister is a clone of the Encrypted Maps canister. It stores the encrypted User Identity data, and verifies the TEE Attestations through a handshake process for access to encrypted values.
- **Proxy Agent:** The off-chain component responsible for establishing websocket communication with Discord servers. Also securely handles the storage of user identity. It runs in a Nitro TEE Enclave for trust.
- **Frontend Canister**

_Note: TEEs have been avoided for this hackathon project because of the high costs. In production, we'll use OracleKit's [nitro-tee-kit](https://github.com/OracleKit/nitro-tee-kit) and [nitro-tee-attestation](https://github.com/OracleKit/nitro-tee-attestation)_

The project uses the following external components:
- **SNS Aggregator:** For up-to-date SNS data
- **Internet Identity:** For authentication

## Security

The ephemeral Internet Identity principal, it's private keys and the delegation data are all encrypted and stored in the Registry Canister using VetKeys on ICP. The `Registry Canister` grants access to the keys, only to the `Proxy Agent` by verifying the Nitro TEE Attestations, and matching the running image hash to the last release. This ensures the sensitive data is not exposed in any way.

## Deployed Canisters
- Frontend Canister: [bv6mc-zqaaa-aaaam-aenqa-cai](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/canister/bv6mc-zqaaa-aaaam-aenqa-cai)
- Registry Canister: [bs7kw-uiaaa-aaaam-aenqq-cai](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/canister/bs7kw-uiaaa-aaaam-aenqq-cai)

## Local Setup

Requirements:
- Bash shell
- Node.js (>=16.0.0) with pnpm
- Rust

Create a `.env` file with the following contents:
```bash
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=
DISCORD_BOT_CLIENT_ID=
FRONTEND_URL=
VITE_DISCORD_PROXY_HOSTNAME=http://localhost:3000
REGISTRY_CANISTER_ICP_NETWORK_URL=http://localhost:4943
```
Fill your Discord bot client id and token, and the frontend url (either deployed asset canister or vite local instance url).

Then create a `src/discord-proxy/private-key.json` file with the output of the following script:
```js
import { Ed25519KeyIdentity } from '@dfinity/identity';
console.log(JSON.stringify(Ed25519KeyIdentity.generate().toJSON()))
```
This creates a random identity for the `discord-proxy` component, to securely access VetKeys.

To start the project locally, run:
```bash 
dfx start --background --clean
npm run setup
npm run deploy
npm run start:proxy
```

Commit message:

add technical workflow in readme

README.md, after:

# Neuron Bot

_This project is a part of series of projects, **Neural** for WCHL 2025, meant to make the ICP DAO capabilities accessible to organizations outside ICP. The goal is to establish ICP as the ultimate DAO platform for any needs._

Voting on SNS proposals, Stake-aware Access Controls, Enhanced Community Collaboration, all through Discord now!

This project enables seamless, secure, and privacy-conscious voting on Internet Computer’s SNS (Service Nervous System) proposals directly within Discord. It leverages Internet Identity, VetKeys and TEEs to make the entire user-flow completely secure. Designed with extensibility in mind, the system also lays the foundation for advanced community features such as stake-aware access control and enhanced governance workflows — turning Discord into a robust platform for decentralized decision-making and engagement.

## How does it work?

- Login through Internet Identity.
- Add the ephemeral principal as a Hot Key for your neurons.
- And you're done!

## Architecture

<img width="1758" height="1180" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/386f2a72-8513-4463-8e29-f36ff322853a" />


The project has 3 components:
- **Registry Canister:** This canister is a clone of the Encrypted Maps canister. It stores the encrypted User Identity data, and verifies the TEE Attestations through a handshake process for access to encrypted values.
- **Proxy Agent:** The off-chain component responsible for establishing websocket communication with Discord servers. Also securely handles the storage of user identity. It runs in a Nitro TEE Enclave for trust.
- **Frontend Canister**

_Note: TEEs have been avoided for this hackathon project because of the high costs. In production, we'll use OracleKit's [nitro-tee-kit](https://github.com/OracleKit/nitro-tee-kit) and [nitro-tee-attestation](https://github.com/OracleKit/nitro-tee-attestation)_

The project uses the following external components:
- **SNS Aggregator:** For up-to-date SNS data
- **Internet Identity:** For authentication

### Technical Workflow

- User clicks the "Login" button on Discord.
- The interaction is received by `Proxy Agent`, which send a ephemeral response with a unique login link.
- The link takes the user to a login page through the `Frontend` canister.
- User logins through Internet Identity.
- Private Key of the ephemeral II principal and delegation information, gets encrypted and stored in the `Registry` canister
- Whenever user tries to interact with proposals, `Proxy Agent` undergoes handshake for TEE verification with `Registry` canister.
- It then gets the corresponding II data and carries the interaction on behalf of the user.

## Security

The ephemeral Internet Identity principal, it's private keys and the delegation data are all encrypted and stored in the Registry Canister using VetKeys on ICP. The `Registry Canister` grants access to the keys, only to the `Proxy Agent` by verifying the Nitro TEE Attestations, and matching the running image hash to the last release. This ensures the sensitive data is not exposed in any way.

## Deployed Canisters
- Frontend Canister: [bv6mc-zqaaa-aaaam-aenqa-cai](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/canister/bv6mc-zqaaa-aaaam-aenqa-cai)
- Registry Canister: [bs7kw-uiaaa-aaaam-aenqq-cai](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/canister/bs7kw-uiaaa-aaaam-aenqq-cai)

## Local Setup

Requirements:
- Bash shell
- Node.js (>=16.0.0) with pnpm
- Rust

Create a `.env` file with the following contents:
```bash
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=
DISCORD_BOT_CLIENT_ID=
FRONTEND_URL=
VITE_DISCORD_PROXY_HOSTNAME=http://localhost:3000
REGISTRY_CANISTER_ICP_NETWORK_URL=http://localhost:4943
```
Fill your Discord bot client id and token, and the frontend url (either deployed asset canister or vite local instance url).

Then create a `src/discord-proxy/private-key.json` file with the output of the following script:
```js
import { Ed25519KeyIdentity } from '@dfinity/identity';
console.log(JSON.stringify(Ed25519KeyIdentity.generate().toJSON()))
```
This creates a random identity for the `discord-proxy` component, to securely access VetKeys.

To start the project locally, run:
```bash 
dfx start --background --clean
npm run setup
npm run deploy
npm run start:proxy
```
